Are you convinced
that Jehovah wants you to rejoice?
We have many reasons to believe that.
Creation is one such proof.
In the beginning, the Bible teaches
that Jehovah worked very hard
to make our home a delightful place
to live here on planet Earth.
This included his creating millions
of different species of plants and animals.
And when he finished
with all this amazing activity,
do you know what our Creator did next?
At the end of the sixth creative day,
the Bible tells us at Genesis 1:31:
“God saw everything he had made,
and look! it was very good.”
Think about that.
After working hard over perhaps
the course of thousands of years,
our Father paused, he inspected everything,
and then he rejoiced in all that he had made.
Brothers and sisters,
the beauty and wisdom in creation
proves that our heavenly Father
wants us to enjoy life on planet Earth.
In fact, he wants us to join him in rejoicing
over all that he has made.
But how can we do that?
The Bible gives us a clue at Psalm 111:2.
I invite you, please, to open your Bible
and read along with all of us—Psalm 111:2.
It says: “The works of Jehovah are great;
they are studied by all those
finding pleasure in them.”
We see clearly in the Bible
that Jehovah invites us
to look closely at the things
he has made so that we can learn from them.
And doing so is a delightful experience.
So let’s do that together.
In this symposium,
we will examine six of Jehovah’s many works
and our God-given ability to enjoy them all.
First, we’ll focus our attention
on exquisite flowers.
Then, our next speaker
will talk about one of our favorite things
—delicious food.
Next, we will discuss beautiful colors,
our well-designed bodies,
delightful sounds and,
lastly, fascinating animals.
Each talk in this series
will also teach us
Scriptural lessons from creation
that can help us rejoice in life
even now in these difficult last days.
Well, are you as ready as I am?
Let’s start by looking closely
at exquisite flowers.
In the following video,
I invite you to look
for the answers to these three questions:
First, how many species
of flowering plants are there?
Second, what practical needs
do flowers serve?
And third, how can flowers help us
when we get anxious?
Please enjoy the video.
The earth has more than 350,000 species
of flowering plants.
Flowers serve practical needs.
Flowers make pollen in order to reproduce
and nectar for creatures that spread pollen.
Pollination produces nutritious seeds,
fruits, and vegetables.
The beautiful flower we see
may look like this to a bee.
Some flowers reflect ultraviolet light
in ways that create a hard-to-miss target.
We enjoy more than
the flower’s beauty and aroma.
Yet, some plants do not need
beautiful flowers to reproduce.
Flowers, pollen,
nectar, and aromas
are costly for plants to produce.
Those resources could be used
for other purposes.
Yet, plants make flowers
in breathtaking abundance.
Jehovah generously created flowers
in a way that brings us joy
and reminds us
to trust him when we are anxious.
“Take a lesson
“from the lilies of the field,
“how they grow;
“they do not toil,
“nor do they spin;
“but . . . not even Solomon
“in all his glory
was arrayed as one of these.”
Did that video stir within you a desire
to get to know Jehovah’s creative works
even better?
Jehovah designed us
to enjoy the beauty of flowers
and their lovely fragrances.
Can you imagine trying to study
all 350,000 species of flowering plants
—admiring their beauty, smelling them,
and maybe even making a drawing
or taking a photo of each one?
You know, if you started today
and spent a little time every day
getting to know a different flower,
your study project
would take a little over 958 years.
It’s a good thing
we’re going to live forever, isn’t it?
But in addition
to seeing the beauty in flowers,
as we’ve learned in the video,
flowers play
an important role in our ecosystem.
Flowers make pollen in order to reproduce
and nectar for creatures like the bees
that spread pollen.
In turn,
pollination produces nutritious seeds,
fruits, and vegetables.
Thanks to the flowers, we have food to eat.
And how we marvel at the ingenious design
that’s evident in all things in creation!
Many people today enjoy looking at creation,
but few realize that when they do so,
they’re actually getting
a glimpse into the mind and heart
of our loving Creator, Jehovah.
Well, that’s not true of us, though
—is it?—
because we know who Jehovah is.
When we carefully observe
all of the things he has made,
we naturally think of him
and are drawn closer to him
and to his beautiful qualities.
At one point in life, the faithful man Job
was reminded by his friend Elihu
to “stop and consider carefully
the wonderful works of God.”
Do you recall how that advice helped Job?
As Job learned,
our joy increases
when we’re focused on Jehovah
and on his works instead of on ourselves.
Parents and young ones,
this is a good lesson for all of us.
Following the advice given to Job
can also draw us closer to Jehovah.
How much better that is than spending time
with much of the world’s entertainment
that is debased!
Such prepackaged entertainment
is often designed
to turn us away from Jehovah,
not draw us closer to him.
But what about spending time
observing Jehovah’s works?
Now, that’s a wholesome pastime
with a future.
Observing flowers
may also bring to our mind another lesson,
one that Jesus taught.
Please open your Bible again
to Matthew chapter 6,
and we’ll read together verses 28-30.
In the reading, look for the answer
to the following question:
How can flowers help us when we get anxious?
Let’s read Matthew 6:28-30.
Jesus said:
“Also, why are you anxious about clothing?
“Take a lesson from the lilies of the field,
how they grow;
“they do not toil, nor do they spin;
“but I tell you
that not even Solomon in all his glory
“was arrayed as one of these.
“Now if this is how God clothes
the vegetation of the field
“that is here today and tomorrow
is thrown into the oven,
will he not much rather clothe you,
you with little faith?”
How heartwarming!
Have you ever been anxious
about food and clothing?
If so, you’re not alone.
Among those listening
to Jesus on this occasion
were many poor people
who had the same natural concerns.
But Jesus encouraged them.
How so?
By reminding them
to take a lesson from the flowers.
Jesus knew what we know:
Jehovah generously created flowers in a way
that brings us joy and reminds us
to trust Him when we are anxious.
When we see how well
Jehovah takes care of all the flowers,
we’re reminded of how generous he is
and of his loving care of humans.
And like Jehovah,
when we give generously to others
and help care for their needs when it’s
“within the power of [our] hand” to do so,
we too will experience
the joy that comes from giving.
Dear ones, may we never forget
that it was Jehovah who gave us the ability
to appreciate exquisite flowers.
May doing just that bring you joy
and add to your praise of Jehovah forever.
Now Brother Ralph Walls,
who serves as a helper
to the Personnel Committee,
will present the next talk of this symposium,
“Creation Proves
That Jehovah Wants Us to Rejoice
—Delicious Food.”